Name: what-if-im-wrong
Title: What if I'm Wrong
Description: I wonder how many people in positions of power think this and what do they do to mitigate nagtive effects?
Draft: false
Publish Date: December 28, 2022
---

I've spent almost all my career working at startups (so far) and we are always
venturing into the unknown. Everything is an evergreen deployment. Company
processes are being built from bottom up. The product is constantly changing
trajectory. We're doing whatever we can to hit to arbrarily set milestones for
the company. Everything is effectively being bulit under a handful of
[opinions](/post/strong-opinions-loosely-held/) from a select set of people.

And this trickles down as the company grows. Engineering leaders make their best
judgement for technical direction. Product leaders make their best judgement for
feature development. Ops leaders makes their best judgement for company wide
operations. But what if they're wrong? No human is correct 100% percent of the
time. What can leaders do to help mitigate the cost of being wrong?

What if we remove the leadership context here and just focus on how we might
navigate uncharted territory in general. Let's start from the most naive
strategy. We try a thing, see how it did, recalibrate and try again. Maybe we
can give ourselves a better starting position because of the domain knowledge
we've collected over the years. And sometimes when we recalibrate, we might be
backtracking -- and that should be _an accepted strategy of charting the
unknown_. Imaging trying to navigate a maze, but we're not allowed to backtrack.
That's effectively an all-or-nothing strategy. It's all-in on the first,
initiall decision -- and if it's wrong, we fail.

Now if we step back into the context of leadership, any sign of backtracking is
seen as a wrongdoing. I don't believe that any amount of signal is going to give
us a perfect insight -- we work with probabilities instead (as we do with just
about everything in life). What is difficult is that a leader makes decisions on
behave of many people, and its become absolute blasphemy to be wrong, ever. Part
of the issue is that any decision made by a leader is levered by other folks. If
a founder's founding thesis is wrong, backtracking means putting everyone at the
company out of a job. But on the flipside, it should never be a massive
surprise. Company progress should ba constantly tracked. Large initatives should
be broken down. To go from "everything is fine" to "nevermind" may point to a
never-backtracking mindset.

There are also just some things in life that aren't reversible or shouldn't be
and that's okay too. No analogy is perfect. Look at Zuck going all-in on VR.
It's a thesis that may take a long time to pan out. It's a large gamble and it's
hard to imagine as a bystander of how exactly Zuck should've broken down the VR
execution. But one of the advantages of software is that its incredibly easy to
build and tear down. Companies should lean into that trait of software and
harness it to allow the company to also be enabled by fast feedback cycles. 

Effectively, I believe that the most effective method of executing (particularly
in a startup sense) is to optimze for quick iterations (I'm sure this will look
very different based on context), and allow backtracking (i.e canceling
projects*, reverting changes, going back to status quo). Everything I listed for
backtracking hurts, but it's better to go in reverse if we're headed for a
cliff.

\* _Google might be an exception here because they don't seem to learn at all
from all their canceled projects. There is never a silver bullet!_
